# Survey Workflow

All Surveys follow the same workflow:

* Create a list of Survey questions
* Send out survey to all recipients
* Collect responses
* Review and comment on summarized findings
* Share completed Survey results (either directly or by adding them to a Review)

## Survey Recipients

Each survey includes a list of Survey recipients - a list of named users or teams that will receive the Survey questions. Recipients can include any PR or issue contributors even if they aren't Sleuth users. See [Users and Teams](broken-reference) for more information.

Once the Survey moves from **Draft** to **In Progress**, each recipient receives the survey in Slack and can also respond to it there (without logging into Sleuth).

## Survey States

All Sleuth Surveys move through the following three states:

* **Draft:** This is the initial state where Survey Owners and collaborators can work together to create a list of questions to be answered by the Survey recipients. Once the Survey Owner is satisfied with the list of questions, they can send the survey to all recipients by clicking the **Start survey** button.
* **In progress:** When the Survey transitions into this state, all recipients receive the list of Survey questions to answer in Slack. As recipients complete their answers, questions are updated and summarized in Sleuth using quantitative visualizations and narrative summaries generated by Sleuth's [AI Assistant ](../ai-assistant.md). Once a Survey owner determines that they have enough responses, they **Publish** the survey by clicking the **End survey** button, moving the Survey to its final state.
* **Published:** Sleuth "freezes" Surveys once they are published in order to preserve their history. Survey Widgets stop updating, even if additional responses are provided, and users are no longer able to edit the content of the Survey. If needed, Survey owners and Sleuth admins can manually revert a Survey to **In Progress** by selecting **Unpublish survey** from the Survey menu that appears when clicking on the ellipses at the top of the Survey.

## Adding survey results to a Sleuth review

Final Survey Results can be added to any Review in Sleuth using the **Survey Results** Widgets.

From any Review, insert the Survey Result Widget, then configure the widget by selecting the Teamspace where the Survey resides and the specific Survey within that Teamspace that you want to include.

Once the Survey has been selected, Survey results will automatically display in the Review.

## Sharing surveys

Once published, Survey owners can share Surveys by sending them as a link, downloading them as a PDF, or using **Presentation mode** to show the Survey results and questions as a slide presentation right within Sleuth.
